---
title: "Lessons from the Trenches on Reproducible Evaluation of Language Models"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-05-23-eval-trenches
excerpt: '<p>[<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14782" style="color:#51ADC8;">Paper</a>] - <a href="/publication/2024-05-23-eval-trenches" style="color:#51ADC8;">Abstract</a><br /><span style="font-family:Courier New">Citation</span>: Stella Biderman, Hailey Schoelkopf, Lintang Sutawika, Leo Gao, Jonathan Tow, Baber Abbasi, Alham Fikri Aji, Pawan Sasanka Ammanamanchi, Sidney Black, Jordan Clive, Anthony DiPofi, Julen Etxaniz, Benjamin Fattori, Jessica Zosa Forde, Charles Foster, Jeffrey Hsu, Mimansa Jaiswal, Wilson Y. Lee, Haonan Li, Charles Lovering, Niklas Muennighoff, Ellie Pavlick, Jason Phang, Aviya Skowron, Samson Tan, Xiangru Tang, Kevin A. Wang, Genta Indra Winata, François Yvon, Andy Zou <u>Lessons from the Trenches on Reproducible Evaluation of Language Models</u>. <i>Preprint.</i></p>'
date: 2024-05-23
venue: 'Preprint'
---

Effective evaluation of language models remains an open challenge in NLP. Researchers and engineers face methodological issues such as the sensitivity of models to evaluation setup, difficulty of proper comparisons across methods, and the lack of reproducibility and transparency. In this paper we draw on three years of experience in evaluating large language models to provide guidance and lessons for researchers. First, we provide an overview of common challenges faced in language model evaluation. Second, we delineate best practices for addressing or lessening the impact of these challenges on research. Third, we present the Language Model Evaluation Harness (lm-eval): an open source library for independent, reproducible, and extensible evaluation of language models that seeks to address these issues. We describe the features of the library as well as case studies in which the library has been used to alleviate these methodological concerns.
[<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14782" style="color:#51ADC8;">Paper</a>]

<span style="font-family:Courier New">Citation</span>: Stella Biderman, Hailey Schoelkopf, Lintang Sutawika, Leo Gao, Jonathan Tow, Baber Abbasi, Alham Fikri Aji, Pawan Sasanka Ammanamanchi, Sidney Black, Jordan Clive, Anthony DiPofi, Julen Etxaniz, Benjamin Fattori, Jessica Zosa Forde, Charles Foster, Jeffrey Hsu, Mimansa Jaiswal, Wilson Y. Lee, Haonan Li, Charles Lovering, Niklas Muennighoff, Ellie Pavlick, Jason Phang, Aviya Skowron, Samson Tan, Xiangru Tang, Kevin A. Wang, Genta Indra Winata, François Yvon, Andy Zou <u>Lessons from the Trenches on Reproducible Evaluation of Language Models</u>. <i>Preprint.</i> 